---
title: Initial Configuration
order_number: 18
---

<a name="#site-structure"></a>

Now that we have the website up and running we can start to customize it. The first step is to open the `_config.yml` file in the base directory.

From there you can set up the basic website information, and add custom configuration details. The file is setup as `key: value`. If you find this part too confusing you can find a ready to go basic configuration file at the end of the chapter.

What follows is a list with the most important keys and their use, you can find more keys by looking at the [official documentation][1]:


- **`plugins:`**
A list of ruby plugins to bundle with the website.

- **`title`**
The title of your website.

- **`description`**
The "motto" that will appear right under the title.

- **`email`**
Your email.

- **`logo`**
The image to be used as the logo.

- **`cover`**
The image to be used as the cover image.

- **`name`**
Your name or pseudonym.

- **`author`**
Your name or pseudonym, or the name of the default writer for the site.

- **`author_image`**
Your picture (small).

- **`paginate`**
The number of articles per page.

- **`url`**
The URL of your website (root URL).

- **`baseurl`**
The URL for your Jekyll site (usually empty `baseurl: ""`, fill it in if you want only a folder of your site to be managed by
Jekyll).

- **`twitter_handle`**
Your Twitter handle, starting with `@` (not the URL).

- **`social`**
For each social link you want to add you'll need to add the following snippet:


````
  - icon:    twitter
    url:    https://twitter.com/valentinourbano
    desc: Follow me on twitter
    share_url:
    share_title:
    share_link:
    ```
    icon:  The icon to use, go to [FontAwesome](https://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/icons/) to find all the names (For example `github` will become an icon with the GitHub logo).
url: The URL of your social profile
description: It will appear while hovering
share_ : If you want to automatically prefill a tweet or a youtube post with some information

Notice that this can be used also with non-social links if you want. I've done something similar here using the apple icon to link to [my apps](http://www.valentinourbano.com/apps):
````

- icon: apple
  url: /apps
  desc: Check out my apps
  share_url:
  share_title:
  share_link:

```

- **`permalink`** : Which kind of permalink you want for your articles. Default is `/year/month/day/title.html`, I changed it to `/title.html` using: `permalink: /:title.html`. You could also add a `/blog/title.html` if you prefer, doing so: `permalink: /blog/:title.html`

## Example File

This is a simplified version of the configuration file I'm currently using. There are a few additional components in addition to the standard entries explained above.

```
webrick:#1
  headers:
    X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
    X-Frame-Options: deny
    X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block

plugins:
  - jekyll-sitemap

title: "My Website"
description: Website Description

email: my@email.com

name: "my name"
author: "my name"
author_image: "assets/image.png"

url: "http://www.example.com"
baseurl: ""

permalink: /:title.html

defaults:
  - scope:
      path: ""
    values:
      layout: "post"

exclude: [vendor]

future: false#2

assets:#3
  destination: "/assets"
  compression: true
  caching:
    path: ".jekyll-cache/assets"
    type: file # Possible values: memory, file
    enabled: true

```

1. We can add custom headers to the website (for example security headers)
2. Do not publish articles with a publication date in the future
3. Automatically cache assets

[1]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/configuration/