---
title: Plugins
---

**Note**: According to an answer on [StackOverflow][1] plugins are not officially supported by Github Pages. Use them at your own risk. According to Github **some** plugins are [now officially supported](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/issues/325), but the majority of them remain unsupported.

While building the site I noticed that a few important features were missing from the theme. For example I always wanted to have an estimated time of how long it takes to read an article and how many words it is so that a reader can quickly decide if they have the time to read it right now or prefer to come back to it later.

Doing that requires installing the `jekyll-time-to-read` plugin. To define it as a dependency for the website add it to `_config.yml` under plugins:

```
plugins:
  - jekyll-time-to-read
```

And in the `Gemfile` by adding the line `gem "jekyll-time-to-read"`. To install it open the Terminal and run `bundle install`.

To properly configure it you need to decide where to show the counter in the page. For my website I added it after the author field at the top of each article, but you can put it wherever you want. I also only wanted it for articles and not pages so I only added it to `post.html` template in the `_layouts` folder:

```

<h4 class="author-name" itemprop="author" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">{{ site.author }}</h4>
              on
              <time datetime="{{ page.date | date: "%F %R" }}">{{ page.date | date_to_string }}</time>
               - {{ page.content | number_of_words }} Words - {{ content | reading_time_as_i }}.
            </div>
```

You can find a list of user curated plugins on [GitHub][2]. A few of my personal favorites are:

- jekyll-sitemap
Jekyll does not automatically generate a sitemap for you so this plugin will do it automatically each time you build the website.
- jekyll-feed
Adds an RSS Feed to the website.
- jekyll-paginate
Adds pagination to the website so the content gets split into different pages.
- jekyll-tagging-related_posts
Adds links to related posts based on tags.
- jekyll-archives
Adds an archive page for categories and tags.
- jekyll-mentions
Adds @mention support.
- jekyll-import
Adds support for import articles from other blogging engines.



[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/20369397/jekyll-plugin-not-work-on-github
[2]: https://github.com/planetjekyll/awesome-jekyll-plugins