---
title: Migrating
order_number: 21
---

After much theory, we reached the exciting part of the journey. Migrating all of your posts automatically from your old WordPress blog to Jekyll.

My previous blog was on WordPress and I needed to migrate all of my posts. The current instructions to migrate a `wordpress.org` blog (so the self-hosted one) are bugged so here I'll be using the ones for a `wordpress.com` installation which also supports the self-hosted version.

Go to your WordPress dashboard `http://www.valentinourbano.com/wp-admin/`. Go to `Tools` -> `Export` -> `Export All`. Doing that will download a .xml file to your computer containing all your articles. To automatically import it we can use the Jekyll Importer tool.

Open Terminal and install the Importer `gem install jekyll-import`. After installing it run:

```
ruby -rubygems -e 'require "jekyll-import";
    JekyllImport::Importers::WordpressDotCom.run({
      "source" => "FILENAME.xml",
      "no_fetch_images" => false,
      "assets_folder" => "assets"
    })'
```

If it complains about missing dependencies run `gem install DEPENDENCY_NAME` for all the missing dependencies and try again. Once finished you should have a few folders, including a `_posts` folder with as many `.html` files as you had articles. A `_pages` folder with all your pages. And in the end and `_assets` folder with all your images.

You can copy those to your Jekyll site and overwrite the default skeleton folders in there and your site should work as it did before with all the posts.

If you this process succeeded and you have all your articles as html files you can skip to the next chapter, otherwise follow along for alternative methods.


### Using Jekyll Import on different import formats

As with the previous section make sure to have a backup before proceeding.

If your blog is not hosted on WordPress the Jekyll importer that we used supports 28 different import formats. Since we are only cover WordPress I won't go into each one of them.

Supported importers at the time of writing:

- Behance
- Blogger
- CSV
- Dotclear
- Drupal 6
- Drupal 7
- EasyBlog
- Enki
- Ghost
- Google Reader
- Joomla
- Joomla 3
- Jrnl
- Marley
- Mephisto
- Movable Type
- Posterous
- Roller
- RSS
- S9Y
- S9Y Database
- Textpattern
- Third-party
- Tumblr
- Typo
- WordPress [Already covered in the previous section]
- WordPress.com [Already covered in the previous section]

You can find the documentation for the others [here][1].

Be aware that the importer will generally only migrate articles and pages. It is not very good at migrating other kind of metadata such as tags, images or custom fields. You should always double check the result of the export by building the website and taking a look at it or comparing it with the original.

## Using a Custom Importer for WordPress

If the Jekyll importer failed you, you can try using [a custom importer][3] that has been reccomended by the Jekyll community. This does require more technical knowledge, but it should correctly import tags and images once configured correctly.


[1]: https://import.jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/
[2]: https://ADD_DOMAIN.wordpress.com/wp-admin/export.php
[3]: https://vitobotta.com/2011/03/28/migrate-from-wordpress-to-jekyll/