---
title: The `_data` Folder
order_number: 25
---

I created an `apps.yml` file to store all the data that you see in the [apps section](/apps).

The basics are pretty easy to grasp. You have various custom fields and you can loop through all the elements and apply whatever formatting you want to them.

For the [patch notes](/apps/patchnotes) section I've used the same `apps.yml` this time just to parse the name of the app and used that to generate the URLs to the correct patch note `.md` file.


#### Creating the `/apps` Page

Jekyll supports the Liquid templating language. You can use `{ }` for both variables and statements. Liquid supports both the use of [filters][8] as well as [tags][9], take a look at the links for which tags are supported and for more example.

Using it you can use for example the `yml` files from the previous section as data sources for your pages while performing logic like for loops or if statement. Below is the current version of my /apps page showcasing all of my published applications. It takes the data from apps.yml and formats it in an easy to read format. Note the use of font awesome to showcase which platform the app was developed for:

```
Here's a list of all my published apps, sorted by platform.

[If you need Support and would like to open a ticket, please go to the Support page.](/support)

Most applications are available in English, Italian and Polish so far.

[Click here to take a look at the Patch Notes](/apps/patchnotes)

{% for member in site.data.apps %}

{% if member.link %}

## {% if member.fontAwesome %}{% for image in member.fontAwesome %}<i class="fa fa-{{ image }}"></i> {% endfor %}{% endif %}<a href="{{ member.link }}">{{ member.name }}</a>
<br><br>
{{ member.description }}

{% if member.bundleName %}Included in [{{ member.bundleName }}]({{bundleLink }}) bundle.{% endif %}
{% endif %}

{% endfor %}
```

<!-- ---- end part 18 ---- -->
<!-- part 19 published 2019-06-02 -->

#### Creating the `/apps/patchnotes` Page

This is really similar to the `/apps` page. For each application, we show the link to their relative patch notes. This way I can redirect users to this page to read all the patch notes in chronological order for a specific app without forcing them to go the AppStore, on top of the fact that the patch notes on my website are usually way more in-depth than what I post on the AppStore due to Apple limitations.

I also try to link the support page whenever I can so that I don't get support request on my personal email address. I still get them there too from time to time, but it doesn't happen often.

For each app, you will find listed the Patch Notes from the latest one to the oldest.

The loops generate each link by using the id of the application and making it lowercased. When we create the patch notes pages we need to be wary of this syntax and use the same lowercased id for the page name.

```

[If you need Support and would like to open a ticket, please go to the Support page.](/support)

{% for member in site.data.apps %}

<br>
{% if member.name %}
###{% if member.fontAwesome %}{% for image in member.fontAwesome %}<i class="fa fa-{{ image }}"></i> {% endfor %}{% endif %}[{{ member.name }}](/apps/patchnotes/page/{{ member.id | downcase }}.html)
{% endif %}


{% endfor %}

```

#### Creating the specific Patch Notes Pages

Each page is a markdown text file like this:

```
---
layout: page
title: County Patch Notes
---

## 1.1

* FIX: Drastically reduced app size.
* FIX: Fixed other minor bugs.
* NEW: New and Improved Image Picker.
* NEW: Select custom color for your text.
```

I wanted the page to be really minimal and to the point. Remember to give it the correct title and filename to be correctly linked.

#### App Recap

Each time you add a new application you need to:

1. Add the relative JSON to the file inside the `_data` folder.
2. Create the patch note page and add the patch notes.

Jekyll will take care of the rest. This way of storing data is really useful for directories of content and can be adapted for most use-cases with relative ease.
