---
title: Continous Integration
---

You made it this far, it's time to go further into the rabbit hole. I would like to make sure that I don't push breaking changes to master which gets automatically published to my website and might make some pages unreachable. For that goal, I will have [Travis](https://travis-ci.org) building my website for me and checking that it works before allowing a change to be merged back to the master branch. On top of that, you could add a script that checks for errors in the HTML, another to check your writing style and so on, the possibilities are endless. If you have any idea let me know on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/valentinourbano).

Next up we're going to set up [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/) to test our website after every commit using htmlproof.


#### Automatic Testing After Each Commit

If your website is open source (let's say on a Github repository as we set it up here for simplicity) you can add a trigger to make Travis (a suite of automated tools to test your application) build every commit that you push to the repository and test the HTML generated with `htmlproof`.

First, you'll need to add a file called `.travis.yml` at the root of your website:

```
language: ruby
rvm:
  - 2.2
script:
  - bundle exec jekyll build
  - bundle exec htmlproof ./_site --only-4xx
env:
  global:
    - NOKOGIRI_USE_SYSTEM_LIBRARIES=true # speeds up installation of html-proofer
```

`bundle exec jekyll build` builds your website and generates the `/_site` folder with all the output.
`bundle exec htmlproof ./_site --only-4xx` checks the images in your site (including if they contain an alt tag or not) and checks all the links, returning an error only if the link is a 4\*\* so it doesn't return an error if it's a temporary error or a server issue.

Commit the file and head to [Travis](http://travis.org). If your project is open source you won't have to pay anything since Travis is free for open source projects. Allow access for your account. Travis will start by scanning all your repositories, once finished you can tick off the repository with your site that you want to test. Each time you push a commit or there is a pull request to that specific branch (usually master) Travis will build your site and make sure there are no errors. If there is any error it will show the error message directly in Github.

After doing this it's recommended that you always make a branch a do a pull request back to master every time you change something instead of pushing the change to master directly so that you let your test run before merging it into the master branch that gets built by Github Pages.
