---
title: Broken Links
order_number: 32
---

The WordPress installation left most of the links to other articles as absolute articles. This left the website address in the URL, so when I either change the permalink structure or the website URL they are all going to break.

Note: WordPress uses this style `/my-title/` for links. Since Jekyll generates HTML files it uses `/my-title.html`. Also keep in mind that if you change your permalink structure all the links are going to break. SO be careful every time you think about switching your link scheme and decide it early in the process of creating a new blog (that doesn't mean that you can't change it later if you want to though, but you will need to take precautions). Jekyll has a nice feature to avoid this: Instead of just including the link directly you can do it like this: `post_url 21-02-2016-migrating-off-wordpress` by enclosing both sides with `{` and `%` signs before and by `%` and `}` after. This will return the link to this post and you can include it in any other post or page. You can also use URL rewrite to automatically redirect to the correct url (for example using .htaccess on a server based on apache), the problem is that I'm not using a server since I'm hosting the website on Github pages. I could use web workers on Netlify or Cloudflare, but it seems excessive just to rewrite a few URLs.


There is not an easy solution for this. You could just search for all the links corresponding to your previous website domains and change them to the latest one, making sure to change them only when they're actual links. At times I write `http://www.valentinourbano.com` down not as a link but just to pin to this site and I want to links to stay as they are since when I write about a specific site during a specific time I mean that and I don't want it to change when I change my URL.

Another completely different problem is [broken external links]({% post_url 2018-02-06-Broken-Links %}), but those have always been there, no matter what. For now, I'm just ignoring them (or unlinking them in case there is not a single decent version of the site indexed @ web.archive.org if I get an error through the Google Webmaster tool or my automated tests through Continuos Integration). In the future, I'd like for all the links that are mirrored to link to the [archived page](http://web.archive.org). It would be nice to have a script that automatically adds each website you link to to the archive so you can be certain that you can find it there in the future.
