---
title: Preface
order_number: 4
---

When I embarked on this journey I did not find a clear book with step by step instructions on what to do to switch from a normal blog to one that is statically generated nor on the reasons why one should embark on such endaevour.

The basics of the migration process are pretty straightforward for someone who is familiar with the command line, but for someone new to it, they can be daunting.

It doesn't need to be like that. This book will teach you how to migrate your WordPress blog (or any other kind of blog) to a static website step by step.

The focus is on how to migrate an existing blog or website from WordPress to Jekyll (and specifically a Jekyll website hosted on Github Pages). If you need something different you can adapt it for other input sources to be used instead of WordPress (such as Movable Type, or CutePHP) relatively easily assuming there is a way to export your articles into markdown. In this latter case the step by step instructions will not be exactly the same although they can be used as reasonable guidelines.

The same applies if you do not plan to use Github Pages as your hosting service of choice. You can just as easily use Gitlab as a host for example, but as before the step by step instructions are for Github Pages only, since it's the most popular and well supported service.

We are also going to briefly touch on more advanced topics at the end of the book such as Netlify and Cloudflare. There are not mandatory and may be of interest only to the most adept audience so feel free to come back to them at your own pace.