---
title: Introduction
order_number: 5
---

This book includes a deep dive on what you need to do if you want to embark in the same journey I overtook by migrating my website from WordPress to Jekyll.

It requires some technical knowledge, but it is not unachievable even for someone who is relatively new. You need to be familiar with the command line and know the basics of HTML, CSS, and JS. It would also be nice, but not necessary to know something about version control, GIT in the specific. If you are not a technical person and you're looking for a super easy solution to just publish content online this is not for you. WordPress or something like Squarespace are totally fine for that use case. A static website generator requires a minimum of technical knowledge. If you do not possess it, but you are a quick learner you might still make it work, but it is going to be harder and require some dedication.

I had been thinking about migrating my webiste for years before actually going through with it. I always had been scared of totally breaking something by migrating it off from something well established like WordPress and that I'd been using with no regrets for a decade at that point to something less "mainstream" and more technical.

What convinced me to switch was how bothersome the process of writing markdown in Wordpress had become. My process looked something like this: I would write each post in markdown in Byword (either on iOS or mac OS), convert it to HTML and paste it manually into the WordPress textbox. Doing all of this each time felt a bit too much friction. It wasn't broken, but it surely could have been improved. Avoiding writing everything multiple times was going to be a great first step. I also wanted a place where I could have all of my articles in markdown ready to be edited and not have to keep the markdown version somewhere else. If I wanted to edit somewhere I'd have to either lose the markdown version since I would only update it on Wordpress or have to go and find the original version, update it there and then copy the change over to Wordpress.

This was a long time ago. Now Wordpress has [great markdown support][1]. Why would I want to switch now then? And would I make the switch at all?

The main difference is that on Wordpress you still need to use the web interface to write unless you want to use some custom application. On a static website you can write offline using any text editor (I'm personally using [VSCode][2]) and likewise to deploy your changes to the live version you can use any application that supports git. More on this later.

Having markdown files that map one to one to the real published article is not the only advantage though.

Using a static website is also great for performance and helps keeping down costs. The only cost I have to keep up my website is for the domain and the email (which I have included with the domain). Github Page offers hosting for free and you can use your custom domain with it by tweaking the DNS records once when you set it up.

Browsers are great at rendering HTML fast. That's what they need to do. A static website is just mainly HTML and CSS. There is some JS, but there is no server side component in it. No call that needs to be done to retrieve the articles from a database. They are already in the source code of the page. All of that extra work is moved from when you access the page to when you build it. Sure, it will take some time to build the website as you make changes, but that time is saved from every visitor's time when they visit your website.

This is obviosly not the answer for every website. Websites like Amazon or Facebook could never work with such restrictions. A static website is good when the content of the site does not change due to user action. If you need dynamic content this is simply not for you. Articles once written stay the same, the might get edited, but they're surely not going to change dynamically as people are browsing the website in response to their actions. I can easily rebuild all the static pages of the website when I published an article.

All of this would allow me to need a really minimal server infrastructure since in the end it is only rendering html files and both servers and browsers are blazing fast at doing that (decreasing loading time and increasing responsiveness), but there are also many solutions to host static websites for free so I would not necessarely need a server at all. I could simply use one from the many free options. The major ones being GitHub (the one we're going to cover in this book), Gitlab and Netlify.

 [1]: https://en.support.wordpress.com/wordpress-editor/blocks/markdown-block/
 [2]: https://code.visualstudio.com/