---
title: Why Choosing Jekyll
order_number: 8
---

In the end though, I chose Jekyll for multiple reasons:

1. Reliability and Stability
   It being old might be seen as a negative point of some people, and in some cases of bloated and old software it is, but I don't think this is the case. The framework is very much alive and used by most static websites, not to forget that just the fact of Github officially supporting it means a lot more people using it and more people contributing code and fixes. I know it is unlikely that any of the other 2 frameworks I was considering (Ghost and Gatsby) are going to shut down any time soon since they're both widely used.
1. Active Community
   It's the framework with the wider adoption. A history of consistent updates over a decade (it was launched in 2008) and most activity on Github. It might be that in the future newer frameworks will overtake it and if that's the case it might be worth migrating, but for now, Jekyll is still the king.

1. Ease of Use And Customization - Automatic integration with Github
   Github Pages runs on Jekyll with almost no setup. I could simply host my website there and have all the goodies of Github included for free. Otherwise would have been forced to use two different services instead of one: Github to host the code and Netlify to host the site. I tend to avoid that whenever possible.

1. Future Prood
    Jekyll has been around for a long time and it is the most commonly used of the bunch. It has new releases often and even though its development is slower paced than its competitors due to its age it's still extremely active.

## Best Alternatives

The 3 remaining entries in the top 4 are all great choices and you can't go wrong with any of them. 

- [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.org)
- [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)
- [Ghost](https://ghost.org/)

If you are unsure:

In the future I expect the popularity of GatsbyJS to rise as more people interested in Graph QL and React try it out as their static website generator of choice.

If you want a hassle free environment that is managed on your behalf you should try Ghost instead. Its price is quite steep, but it might be worth if you value ease of use over everything, but in that case I may ask: Why are you not sticking with wordpress.