---
title: Jekyll Introduction
order_number: 9
---

[Jekyll][2]:
>Jekyll is a simple, blog-aware, static site generator perfect for personal, project, or organization sites. Think of it like a file-based CMS, without all the complexity. Jekyll takes your content, renders Markdown and Liquid templates, and spits out a complete, static website ready to be served by Apache, Nginx or another web server. Jekyll is the engine behind GitHub Pages, which you can use to host sites right from your GitHub repositories.

Jekyll is the most widely used Static Site Generator. It is written in ruby and it generates static HTML pages from your markdown files. Your main focus is writing content while Jekyll takes care of the rest.

You can fully control styling and plugins of your website. For example, I added a script to show the number of words in an article and another one to show an estimate of the reading time, but you do not need to. You can simply select a theme and start writing while worrying about plugins later.

I love this part of Jekyll's `README`:

> Put simply, Jekyll gets out of your way and allows you to concentrate on what truly matters: your content.

Truth be told, most static generators are like that. Customizable if needed, but they don't force you into it, you can simply pick one of the multiple available themes and get started on your content right away.

## Next Steps

To start we will install a local development environment on your mac ([the process on windows and linux should be similar‚[1]) so that you can test your website design and content on you machine without actually publishing it online.

Once your website is ready you can use this same workflow to preview any new article before syncing the changes to the live server to have a preview using the same html files that will be used by the server once uploaded.

_This article will focus on Mac OSX since it's the OS that I'm using. If you need to install Jekyll on a different OS [the official website][1] has a guide on how to do it._

[1]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/#guides
[2]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll