---
layout: post
title: I do care
date: 2012-06-28 17:13:28.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
- Me
- Tech
- Writing
tags: \[\]
meta:
\_wpcom\_is\_markdown: '1'
\_edit\_last: '1'
author:
login: Myshar
email: mysh@myshar.org
display\_name: Valentino Urbano
first\_name: ''
last\_name: ''
---

# 

[Patrick Rhone][0]:

> I'm certainly not a model citizen here but I can tell you that I care a great deal. Sharp eyed readers may have noticed that I make slight edits and wording changes to most of the things I post. Sometimes I do this within minutes of posting them. I also have been known to re-read a post that is weeks old and make slight and subtle changes even though no one will notice but me. Why? Two reasons:
> 
> 1. I care.
> 2. I once had a teacher in a creative writing class convince me that, when it comes to art, nothing is ever finished or absolved from the potential to change or improve. If I see something that I made that I think could be improved I do so, no matter the time or audience.
> 

I do care too. When I publish a post usually I miss few mistakes (grammar, misspells, punctuation)\[1\], so when I come back to it a few days after I get rid off all (most) of them because I do care even though i know that no one would read it.

For the same reason when i write i always take a long time (weeks or even months) to complete an very long article, because i wanna be certain that it doesn't sucks, _not too much at least_.

---

1.Also because I'm not a native English speaker, but i I'm not ashamed. I look at this as an opportunity to improve. **The only way to get better is to keep trying, no matter what.**


[0]: http://minimalmac.com/post/663697093/steve-jobs-the-next-insanely-great-thing