---
layout: post
title: First month
date: 2012-03-26 17:36:27.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
- Me
tags: \[\]
meta:
\_wpcom\_is\_markdown: '1'
\_edit\_last: '1'
author:
login: Myshar
email: mysh@myshar.org
display\_name: Valentino Urbano
first\_name: ''
last\_name: ''
---

A quick post to thank everyone for this first month together.

My main target in writing this site is not to gain pageviews or visitor, i don't mind.  My main targey, as i've already said many time - but maybe it's worth saying another time more,  is learn. Writing is a great way to learn new things, to  delve new  unexplored topics.

I learned more this month writing that the past 3 months reading articles, really.

As an example, this month i learned\[[1][0]\]:

* the existance of NetApplications;
* a (not so) great quote by  Michael Dell;
* that so many (relevant) blogs have turned comments off;
* that a big american newspaper doesn't care to give proper credits to the ones who really break the news first;
* therestartpage.com =);
* how bad is the android fragmentation (really worst than i expected) ;
* that I can't  use only an iPad to write, not yet;
* that the official wordpress app for both iOs and android sucks;
* i recalled few episodes of my online life that i'd almost forgotten.

Not bad for just a month.

Thanks to everyone: the ones who gave only a look, the ones who support what i do here and the ones who disapprove it, because only with someone who let you know your mistakes we get better, it's the only way to improve.

---

1.I'm listing only things that i wouldn't have learned if it wasn't for this site.


[0]: #1