---
layout: post
title: 6 Months In
date: 2012-09-08 21:08:05.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
- Me
author: Valentino Urbano 
---

Can't believe I missed it.

It was August, 26th.

This blog was actually created a few days before that, but [the first post was published on that day][0].

This post will be a natural follow up of the [First Month article][1], as it should be.

## Thing I Learned

There are so many things i learn thanks to the post i write and the blogs i follow, but the most important thing is that i can be fine without the internet. In July I spent 10 days without the internet and [i wrote an article about that, not yet published][2].

For other things jump at the "Best Posts" section.

## Changes

As i started writing this article i dropped support for readability through this site. Don't scare off, i'm not blocking it, i'm just deleting the "read now / read later" buttons. I'm sure if you need them you will have installed on your browser. Those button were just slowing the site down and distracting from the reading.

## Best Posts (only full lenght posts)

These are the ones i think are the best through these 6 months, many more to come soon.

* [Anthem of a new blog][0]
* [We're not there, not yet][3]
* [The New Google -- Search Plus][4]
* [AT&T vs developers][5]
* [Mobile layout is bad][6]
* [Comments Off from the beginning][7]
* [Other Suppositions are pointless][8]
* [First Month][9]
* [Hardware buttons][10]
* [100 years][11]
* [Apple][12]
* [Be a Doer][13]
* [3.7 billion miles][14]
* [A Standard for ebooks][15]
* All the serie on the [browser][16] [battle][17] (3rd article is coming).


[0]: /anthem-of-a-new-blog.html
[1]: /1-month.html
[2]: /massive-publishing.html
[3]: /were-not-there-not-yet.html
[4]: /the-new-google.html
[5]: /att-vs-developers.html
[6]: /mobile-layout-is-bad.html
[7]: /comments-off.html
[8]: /other-suppositions-are-pointless.html
[9]: /1-month.html
[10]: /hardware-buttons.html
[11]: /100-years.html
[12]: /apple.html
[13]: /be-a-doer.html
[14]: /3-7-billion-miles.html
[15]: /a-standard-for-ebooks.html
[16]: /web-browser-battle.html
[17]: /web-browser-battle-part-2.html