---
layout: post
title: Keep your localization files up to date - A look at Storyboards
date: 2015-08-01 23:49:48.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
- Programming
author: Valentino Urbano 
---

In every project, the same problem is bound to happen (if you care and do localization - tip: you should do it, even if you plan to release your app just in English, just set it up.): You add an element to storyboard and you want to translate it, but you have a .strings file in that language already and the changes aren't propagated automatically. If you follow the various "guides" online that tell you to remove and re-add the file you'll end up with a new file and you'd need to retranslate everything all over. Same with localizable.string: If you run `genstrings` again you will lose your localization!

**I found an even better way. Check the bottom of the post!**

If you just have a few elements you can just add them manually (use the other entries to help you).

* Go to Main.storyboard
* Select the element to translate (a label for example)
* Go to the custom class bar (the third one) in the right sidebar
* Copy the Object-ID in the Document section
* Switch back to your Main.strings file
* Paste the id like this: 
    
    "YjH-1m-BVM.text" = "Increase by";
    

**Note:** Make sure to add the .text at the end of the Object-ID, the same thing for other elements (it's not always .text so be wary), it's what you would use in code \[I guess\] to access the text property. You can use the rest of the .strings file previously autogenerated to help you with that.

\#\#A Better Way

I forgot that shipping with OSX there is a great utility called "FileMerge" that compares the differences between two files.

Here's what to do (works even if you need to edit a lot of entries):

* Open Xcode and turn on a new localization
* Generate the .strings file for the localization
* Drag the strings file for the localization you want to update on the left and the .strings file that Xcode just generated on the right (or vice-versa)
* On the next screen, you will see both files side by side with all the differences highlighted. Now just copy and paste whatever you want to change.