---
layout: post
title: Removing Clutter From Your Workstation Can Make You More Productive
date: 2018-12-27 22:28:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories: [Tech]
image: /assets/article_images/rob-bye-200739-unsplash.jpeg
image2: /assets/article_images/rob-bye-200739-unsplash.jpeg
author: Valentino Urbano
---

#### Your Devices

I love having a clean home screen on my iPhone and a clean desktop on my Mac.

Why?

- Clutter makes you waste time.
- Clutter makes you lose focus.
- It's easy to access everything i need from search: CMD + SPACE on Mac, Swipe down from every screen on iPhone.

My approach is different:

On iPhone obviously, I have icons. The first page is sacred. Only apps that I use every day multiple times a day are allowed there. The only exception is apps that are really important but for very important reasons I don't use every day (for example a navigation app that I don't use on weekends when I'm home)
On Mac, I prefer an empty desktop. It is used as an actual Desktop, so if I'm actively working on something or if it's something I'm working on a regular basis (every day - no less) it goes on the desktop. When I finish working on it, it goes off the desktop.

On my work Mac, I have 10 files there. I could remove 6 of them if I really wanted to.
On my home Mac, I have zero.

#### Your Desk

Your desk should have the least clutter possible. I usually have just my Mac, my phone, and the (Mac) charger. Nothing else. If I need something else for that specific job I'll add it from the cabinet when needed. No point cluttering your desk with stuff you're going to need just once a month or even less.
If you know you're going to need something at least once a day that it makes the cut, otherwise put it away somewhere still easy to access, but not in plain view.

#### Your Room

If you work from home you should have a different room for your studio. You should keep your working environment separate from your personal one. I realize that that's a challenge at times, and I don't follow this to the letter either, but if you can you should.
You should also get up and not work from your bed (as I'm doing right now - such hypocrite).
om your bed (as I'm doing right now - such hypocrite).

Read more about cleaning your desktop on my article abpout [clutter][1]

[1]: clutter
