---
layout: post
title: 50 Steps On How I Setup Every New Mac
date: 2019-08-20 22:28:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories: [Tech]
image: /assets/article_images/spencer-imbrock-463827.jpeg
image2: /assets/article_images/spencer-imbrock-463827.jpeg
author: Valentino Urbano
---

# The 50(+) Steps I Go Through Setting Up My Brand New Mac

I've already made a <!-- [similar list][0] --> similar list years ago, but it has changed quite a bit so I felt that it needed a refresh. These are all the steps I go through. Only very few are mandatory for everyone, most of them are just how I like my mac to be. You can probably have a totally working mac for anything you want to do with less than 20 of these steps, but I feel like I'm missing something if my mac doesn't have most of the things listed here.

- Log In to my iCloud account\*
- Make sure not to select use the iCloud account as login password\*
- Install System Updates\*
- Download Dropbox to sync passwords over (using 1Password)
- Set up iCloud Keychain and sync over Internet Accounts section\*
- Go through all the System Preferences and change everything (that you can change) to the same as other mac [I usually have both macs one next to each other to make this step easier]
- Install Alfred. Change the keyboard shortcut to ⌘SPACE, replacing Spotlight
- Start Xcode download (will take a few hours)
- Login to Dropbox
- Install 1Password and VSCode (my main writing app) + 1Password Mini
- Open Terminal, look in disbelief at the awful theme, close it. Proceed to download iTerm and install it.
- Install Firefox and add uBlock for Firefox as an extension, also add the 1Password extension
- Install TextExpander
- Open terminal and run `defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles YES` to show hidden files
- Sync Alfred, Safari and Firefox settings
- Install Keyboard Maestro
- Set up TextExpander e Keyboard Maestro using previous exports
- Install homebrew `\curl -fsSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable`
- Export installed homebrew packages from the other mac and install them[^1]
- Install rvm `/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"`
- Install latest version of ruby
- `gem install cocoapods fastlane`
- Install SSH keys for everything (Github, Gitlab):

  1. Generate a key pair using `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "mail@mail.com"`
  2. If it has a custom name add it manually `ssh-add /Users/valentinourbano/.ssh/githubSSHKEY`, in any case, move it in the `~/.ssh/` folder.
  3. Check if it works using `ssh -T git@github.com`

- Install Jekyll and Gatsby
- Install CleanMyMac, Fantastical, f.lux, Bartender, iStatMenus, Amphetamine, Hazel, Timing and Transmit
- Install Unity and Android Studio

* Mandatory Step

<!-- [0]: post_url Myshar-org  -->

[^1]: I don't have a full export handy but the main things are: Node JS (with nvm), Express, flutter, python, tensorflow, ImageMagick, git, autojump, LAMP Stack + Postgres, 7zip.
