---
layout: post
title: Powerful Quotes
date: 2019-08-09 22:28:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: published
categories: [General]
image:
image2:
author: Valentino Urbano
---

Certain quotes remain with you.

For me it is mostly from movies, I tend not to remember quotes from books as often.

The one that I love the most is from Lord Of The Rings:

>“I wish it need not have happened in my time," said Frodo.
>"So do I," said Gandalf, "and so do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.”

It can be adapted to so many situations nowadays. In real life, it is not as hard as Frodo and Gandalf have it in Lord Of The Rings, but awareness of the bigger picture should be something we should all have. Bear with me for a moment...

You can either decide to do 'stuff' with the framework you're given or decide not to. You can't decide the framework unfortunately, it was given to you as is. The framework being what country you were born with, your parents, family, social status, illnesses, constitution, ... Everything that is not under your control. You can either spend your life complaining about your circumstances while doing nothing to change your future for the better (not saying that is wrong, nothing is wrong if it's a pondered and conscious choice) or decide to do something, to try, even though it might not be successful no matter how arduous the circumstances might be. It is an exaggeration, but it's the point that matters.