---
layout: post
title: The Only Two Reasons To Have A Mailing List
date: 2019-01-11 22:28:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories: []
image:
image2:
author: Valentino Urbano
---

[6 Reasons Why You Are Not Getting Traffic](http://tipsfromtim.com/6-reasons-you-are-not-getting-traffic/)

> You Aren’t Building an Email List

> People who subscribe to your email have given you permission to ping them with updates.

> Whenever you publish new content (blog post, video, podcast, etc.) you should let your email list know.

> This is direct traffic back to your blog.

> When you include call-to-actions to share your content then you encourage your readers to spread the value with their network.

Let's start with saying that I despise mailing lists, especially the spammy ones. If you post once a day, as he suggested in that same article and you spam your readers' inbox each time a new article comes out they're gonna be pretty passed, I'm sure I will, and they're probably going to either unsubscribe from the mailing list or just unsubscribe from your site altogether.

The golden rule is **don't annoy your readers** in any way. Sure, minor inconveniences are sometimes mandatory (non-invasive ads, guest posts^(1){for guest posts always remember that your blog it's like your home and you wouldn't want to throw shit in your backyard, even less right before your entrance door. Always pick your guest posts carefully. Of course, this applies to ads as well.})

Newsletters should be for 2 things only (either one or the other):

- content that is not and will not be published anywhere else
- big personal updates on a regular schedule
