---
layout: post
title: Walking Is A Choice
date: 2020-02-15 16:28:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories: [General]
image:
image2:
author: Valentino Urbano
---

Walking is a choice.

I have an office job and if I wanted to I could just sit all day in my chair without moving at all (assuming I do not have meetings that day). For some time I spent the time at my job like that, as I expect most people do as well.

## Keep hydrated

Starting last year I decided to take a glass of (still) water and put it on my desk. A small glass. Every single day.

Each time I take a pause I see the glass and take a sip. When the water is finished I walk to the water dispenser furthest away from my desk to refill it. The office is not huge so I do not waste more than a minute doing it, but I also walk a bit. I do this on average 5 times a day. An added bonus is that I also rest my eyes from the screen for this short time[^1].

## Treadmill

On top of that I try to spend at least one hour on the [treadmill][1] every day I'm in the office, but I realize that most offices do not have it so that's not usually an option. As I started using it I noticed that more people became interested, maybe not so much in walking themselves, but at least in looking and standing on thee standing desk nearby to see me having meetings and coding while walking. I guess it may be somewhat entartaining and I surely don't mind.

 Update: I'm now working from home with no treadmill and I do miss it. I now try to pace across the apartment every once in a while to both not sit all the time and also rest my eyes, but it is definitley more forced and there are times that I'm so focused that I forget doing it so I definitely need to find some solution for this, probably buying a treadmill...

[1]: {% post_url 2019-10-31-treadmill-desk %}
[2]: {% post_url 2019-11-24-update-on-pomodoro-week %}

[^1]: I've write more about [this][2] in due time.
